Compiling with an Integrated Development Envrionment

    Microsoft Visual C++
    --
    For MSVC 6.0 IDE, all you need to do is 'File|Open Workspace...' and select
    'winboard.dsw'.  Then to build, choose 'Build|Batch Build...' and select
    the targets you want to build.  This method has full support for Debug and
    Release builds either with or without JAWS support.

    For later versions of Visual C++, open the same workspace and convert when
    prompted.  Then compile as above.


    DevCpp
    --
    For DevCpp, you need to 'File|Open Project or File...' and select either
    'winboard.dev' or 'WB4Jaws.dev'.  After parsing the project, you can
    'Execute|Compile' to build.  This IDE has no facility for defines in the
    resource compiler, so the version information resource will not indicate
    JAWS support even if it actually has that support.  These projects are not
    set up for debugging, but you can do so by adjusting the 'Compiler' and
    'Parameters' options in the 'Project|Project Options' dialog.



Compiling from the Command Line

    GCC -- this includes cygwin, mingw, djgpp and others.

        make -f makefile.gcc

        You can modify certain settings in the makefile such as JAWS support,
        debugging support.  If using cygwin, you can select whether or not to
        link with cygwin1.dll instead of the msvcrt runtime.


    CL -- this includes MSVC and recent Intel compilers.

        nmake -f makefile.ms        Note: NMAKE, not MAKE

        For Visual Studio 2005 and later, set VCVER to 8, otherwise set it to
        6.  You can select JAWS support or debugging just like the GCC
        makefile.  For MSVC 6.0 and earlier, you are going to need the latest
        SDK from Microsoft.  After you install it, set the SDK_INC variable
        appropriately.  It defaults to the standard location, but you still
        need to uncomment the line.  Prior to compiling from the command line,
        it will be necessary to invoke VCVARS32.BAT if you didn't have MSVC
        register the command line environment variables during installation.
